## Layouts

- [Layouts](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/layouts-and-templates#layouts)

- A layout is UI that is shared between multiple routes. On navigation, layouts preserve state, remain interactive, and do not re-render. Layouts can also be nested.

## Root Layout (Required)

- The root layout is defined at the top level of the `app` directory and applies to all routes. This layout is required and must contain `html` and `body` tags, allowing you to modify the initial HTML returned from the server.

- page 라우트의 \_document 역할을 한다고 볼 수도 있다.

## Nesting Layouts

- By default, layouts in the folder hierarchy are nested, which means they wrap child layouts via their `children` prop. You can nest layouts by adding `layout.js` inside specific route segments (folders).

## Good to know:

- Layouts do not have access to pathname ([learn more](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout)). But imported Client Components can access the pathname using usePathname hook.

- Layouts do not have access to the route segments below itself. To access all route segments, you can use useSelectedLayoutSegment or useSelectedLayoutSegments in a Client Component.

- 즉, Layout은,

  - route segment에 접근이 안된다

  - searchParams에 접근이 안된다

  - pathname에 접근이 안된다

## Layouts do not receive searchParams

- [Layouts do not receive searchParams](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout#layouts-do-not-receive-searchparams)

- Unlike Pages, Layout components do not receive the searchParams prop. This is because a shared layout is not re-rendered during navigation which could lead to stale searchParams between navigations.

  - 여기서 말하는 searchParams가 변하지 않는 navigation은 Partial Rendering

- [searchParams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL/searchParams)

```js
const params = new URL("https://example.com/?name=Jonathan%20Smith&age=18");

// searchParams는 아래 부분
// ?name=Jonathan%20Smith&age=18"
```

## Partial Rendering

- [4. Partial Rendering](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#4-partial-rendering)

- Partial rendering means only the route segments that change on navigation re-render on the client, and any shared segments are preserved.

- For example, when navigating between two sibling routes, `/dashboard/settings` and `/dashboard/analytics`, the settings and analytics pages will be rendered, and the shared dashboard layout will be preserved.

- Without partial rendering, each navigation would cause the full page to re-render on the client. Rendering only the segment that changes reduces the amount of data transferred and execution time, leading to improved performance.

- 즉, layout 컴포넌트에서는 리렌더링이 일어나지 않기 때문에 route segment, searchParams, pathname이 최신화가 되지 않고 그래서 접근을 막는 것이다

## Active Nav Links

- [Active Nav Links](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/layouts-and-templates#active-nav-links)

- You can use the usePathname() hook to determine if a nav link is active.

- Since usePathname() is a client hook, you need to extract the nav links into a Client Component, which can be imported into your layout or template:

- 즉, layout.tsx 아래와 같이 pathname을 불러와서 사용할 수 없기 때문에

```tsx
"use client";

import { usePathname } from "next/navigation";
import Link from "next/link";

export function NavLinks() {
  const pathname = usePathname();

  return (
    <nav>
      <Link className={`link ${pathname === "/" ? "active" : ""}`} href="/">
        Home
      </Link>

      <Link
        className={`link ${pathname === "/about" ? "active" : ""}`}
        href="/about"
      >
        About
      </Link>
    </nav>
  );
}
```

- 위와 같은 클라이언트 컴포넌트를 따로 만들어준 다음 import 해서 사용해야 한다

```tsx
import { NavLinks } from "@/app/ui/nav-links";

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>
        <NavLinks />
        <main>{children}</main>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```
